content/posts/about.md, before:

---
title: "About"
author: ["Dirk"]
description: "Short intro about myself"
date: 2025-06-28T16:16:00+02:00
lastmod: 2025-07-04T08:57:25+02:00
tags: ["forensicwheels", "personal"]
categories: ["personal"]
draft: false
type: posts
weight: 1001
---

{{< figure src="../img/fine.gif" >}}

Hi! I'm Dirk, a security engineer with a passion for Skateboarding and
Forensics. By day, I help my Company safeguard their networks
and systems from the ever-evolving threats in the cybersecurity
landscape.

But when the sun goes down, my true self emerges. Skateboarding is not
just my hobby - it's my passion, my center, and my identity. For me,
Skatelife is more than just lifestyle; it's a way of life that
embodies creativity, freedom, and community and Family. I've been
skating for years, and I still get that same feel every time
I'm on my board.

In addition to my love for skateboarding, I'm also a big enthusiast of
OpenBSD - the most secure, yet accessible operating system out there.
I've built my own OpenBSD-based router and infrastructure for threat
hunting, which allows me to stay one step ahead in the game of
cybersecurity. There's something about the simplicity, elegance, and
power of OpenBSD that resonates deeply with me. You can also read about
the smilarities I see between [OpenBSD and Zen](~/../openbsdzen)

As a nerd, I have to mention my love affair with [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) - my favorite editor.
I've been using it for over 12 years now, and I still can't imagine working
without it. Whether I'm writing code, weblogging, or just tinkering with
snippets of text, Emacs is always by my side.

As I navigate the world of cybersecurity, I'm always looking for ways to
improve my skills, stay ahead of the curve, and when I'm not geeking out
over security patches or network protocols, you can find me:

-   Shredding the on my Deck (Skatelife all the way!)
-   Exploring the depths of OpenBSD and building cool stuff
-   Rocking with Emacs (like this hugo blog for example)
-   Writing about my adventures, insights, and projects

Stay tuned for more updates on my journey as a security engineer,
skateboarder, OpenBSD enthusiast, and Zen student

And since I am searching for a new employer right now I will update this part
soon with a more professional CV like part.

{{< giscus >}}

Commit message:

Latest updates to the blog...

content/posts/about.md, after:

---
title: "About"
author: ["Dirk"]
description: "Short intro about myself"
date: 2025-06-28T16:16:00+02:00
lastmod: 2025-07-04T21:54:15+02:00
tags: ["forensicwheels", "personal"]
categories: ["personal"]
draft: false
weight: 1001
---

{{< figure src="../img/fine.gif" >}}

Hi! I'm Dirk, a security engineer with a passion for Skateboarding and
Forensics. I help my Company safeguard their networks and systems from
the ever-evolving threats in the cybersecurity landscape.

Skateboarding is not just my hobby - it's my passion, my center,
and my identity. For me, Skatelife is more than just lifestyle;
it's a way of life that embodies creativity, freedom, and
community and Family. I've been skating for years, and I
still get that same feel every time I'm on my board.

In addition to my love for skateboarding, I'm also a big enthusiast of
OpenBSD - the most secure, yet accessible operating system out there.
I've built my own OpenBSD-based router and infrastructure for threat
hunting, which allows me to stay one step ahead in the game of
cybersecurity. There's something about the simplicity, elegance, and
power of OpenBSD that resonates deeply with me. You can also read about
the smilarities I see between [OpenBSD and Zen](~/../openbsdzen)

As a nerd, I have to mention my love affair with [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) - my favorite editor.
I've been using it for over 12 years now, and I still can't imagine working
without it. Whether I'm writing code, weblogging, or just tinkering with
snippets of text, Emacs is always by my side.

As I navigate the world of cybersecurity, I'm always looking for ways to
improve my skills, stay ahead of the curve, and when I'm not geeking out
over security patches or network protocols, you can find me:

Stay tuned for more updates on my journey as a security engineer,
skateboarder, OpenBSD enthusiast, and Zen student


[//]: # "Exported with love from a post written in Org mode"
[//]: # "- https://github.com/kaushalmodi/ox-hugo"
