---
title: "SANS FOR608"
author: ["Dirk"]
date: 2025-05-26T16:21:00-05:00
lastmod: 2025-06-28T17:03:50+02:00
tags: ["forensicwheels", "honeypot", "canarytokens"]
categories: ["forensic", "threathunting"]
draft: true
weight: 1003
---

<div class="ox-hugo-toc toc">

<div class="heading">Inhaltsverzeichnis</div>

- [**Enterprise Threat hunting and Response (FOR608)**](#enterprise-threat-hunting-and-response--for608)
- [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Brief overview of forensic analysis and its application](#brief-overview-of-forensic-analysis-and-its-application)
- [**Course Overview**](#course-overview)
    - [Proactive Detection and Response (608.1)](#proactive-detection-and-response--608-dot-1)
    - [Scaling Response and Analysis (608.2)](#scaling-response-and-analysis--608-dot-2)
    - [Modern Attacks against Windows and Linux DFIR (608.3)](#modern-attacks-against-windows-and-linux-dfir--608-dot-3)
    - [Analyzing macOS and Docker Containers (608.4)](#analyzing-macos-and-docker-containers--608-dot-4)
    - [Cloud Attacks and Response (608.5)](#cloud-attacks-and-response--608-dot-5)
    - [Capstone: Enterprise-Class IR Challenge](#capstone-enterprise-class-ir-challenge)
- [**Key Takeaways**](#key-takeaways)
    - [Summary of key concepts and skills learned during the course](#summary-of-key-concepts-and-skills-learned-during-the-course)
    - [Analysis of learning outcomes and their application in real-world scenarios](#analysis-of-learning-outcomes-and-their-application-in-real-world-scenarios)
- [**Conclusion and Recommendations**](#conclusion-and-recommendations)
    - [Summary of overall effectiveness of the SANS Forensics course for608](#summary-of-overall-effectiveness-of-the-sans-forensics-course-for608)
    - [Recommendations for future students looking to learn forensic analysis skills](#recommendations-for-future-students-looking-to-learn-forensic-analysis-skills)

</div>
<!--endtoc-->


## **Enterprise Threat hunting and Response (FOR608)** {#enterprise-threat-hunting-and-response--for608}

Course description from SANS&nbsp;[^fn:1] :

> FOR608: Enterprise-Class Incident Response &amp; Threat Hunting focuses on
> identifying and responding to incidents too large to focus on individual
> machines. By using example tools built to operate at enterprise-class
> scale, students learn the techniques to collect focused data for
> incident response and threat hunting, and dig into analysis
> methodologies to learn multiple approaches to understand attacker
> movement and activity across hosts of varying functions and operating
> systems by using an array of analysis techniques.


## Introduction {#introduction}


### Brief overview of forensic analysis and its application {#brief-overview-of-forensic-analysis-and-its-application}

Forensic analysis in computer science investigates digital evidence to
solve cybercrimes and security incidents. In enterprise environments, it
involves analyzing devices, networks, and cloud storage. Key
applications include incident response, compliance with regulations,
investigations, and predictive analytics.

{{< figure src="../img/mfsans.png" >}}

Tools like Timesketch, Velociraptor or Wireshark, and cloud forensics
platforms aid in the analysis. Collaboration between IT and law
enforcement is also crucial for successful investigations.

The goal of forensic analysis is to reconstruct events, identify
perpetrators, and determine damage extent, ensuring organizations can
respond effectively to security threats and maintain compliance with
regulations.


## **Course Overview** {#course-overview}


### Proactive Detection and Response (608.1) {#proactive-detection-and-response--608-dot-1}

The FOR608 course begins in chapter 1 by discussing current cyber
defense concerns and the importance of collaboration among incident
responders and threat hunters. It emphasizes the need for sharing
knowledge from sources like the [MITRE
ATT&amp;CK](https://attack.mitre.org/) framework and explores the concept of active defense, including
the use of honeypots, honey tokens, and canaries to slow down attackers
and facilitate detection.

When a compromise does occur, the course focuses on efficient handling
of intrusions, covering topics such as leading the response, managing
team members, documenting findings, and communicating with stakeholders.
The [Aurora](https://github.com/cyb3rfox/Aurora-Incident-Response)
documentation tool is introduced as a means for tracking investigation
phases from initial detection to remediation.

The chapter then dives into an example scenario where an alert is
triggered in a company network, and triage data is analyzed using
[Timesketch](https://timesketch.org/), a powerful platform for
scalable and collaborative analysis of forensic data. Additionally,
techniques are shared for viewing the same data set with
[Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/kibana), which offers capabilities
such as creating dashboards and saved searches to aid analysis.

Chapter 608.1 concludes by examining key threat intelligence concepts,
including developing and implementing internal threat intelligence.
External projects like [MITRE ATT&amp;CK](https://attack.mitre.org/) and
[Sigma](https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma) are leveraged, and two
comprehensive threat intel platforms,
[MISP](https://www.misp-project.org) and
[OpenCTI](https://filigran.io/solutions/open-cti/), are introduced. A
threat intel report on the adversary targeting Stark Research Labs is
presented to kick off the investigation into potential signs of
intrusion in the company.


### Scaling Response and Analysis (608.2) {#scaling-response-and-analysis--608-dot-2}

The course continues from chapter 1 by focusing on response actions.
Students learn how to collect evidence at scale to scope a potential
intrusion by leveraging EDR tooling data from EDR Solutions like
[Sysmon](https://learn.microsoft.com/de-de/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon).
However, they also discuss common bypass techniques that attackers use
to evade EDR technology.To aid in this analysis, the
[Velociraptor](https://docs.velociraptor.app/) tool is introduced as a
powerful platform for incident response and threat hunting.

{{< figure src="../img/logo.svg" >}}

The chapter shows how [Velociraptor](https://docs.velociraptor.app)
can collect forensic artifacts from across the enterprise and provide
deep-dive capabilities into individual hosts of interest. Additionally,
[Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch) is used to
ingest and process data from various tools, allowing for fast searches
and aggregations. Students also learn about rapid response options for
targeted data collections at scale using tools like
[Velociraptor](https://docs.velociraptor.app/) and
[CyLR](https://github.com/orlikoski/CyLR). Finally, solutions are
presented for quickly processing acquired data for analysis in tools
like [Timesketch](https://timesketch.org/) and individual artifact
review.


### Modern Attacks against Windows and Linux DFIR (608.3) {#modern-attacks-against-windows-and-linux-dfir--608-dot-3}

The third chapter of the course shifts focus from network-based analysis
to traditional host-based forensic artifact analysis. It begins by
discussing modern attack techniques on Windows systems, including
ransomware and
"[living-of-the-land](https://lolbas-project.github.io/#)" (LOTB)
attacks that avoid detection by using built-in binaries and scripts. The
use of [Sigma](https://github.com/SigmaHQ/sigma) rules is highlighted
as a way to facilitate rapid detection and response.

The section also covers Linux incident response and analysis, starting
with common vulnerabilities and exploits targeting Linux systems. It
then dives into DFIR fundamentals for analyzing Linux systems, including
key concepts such as differences among Linux distributions and file
systems, and strategies for handling initial triage and deeper forensic
analysis. The chapter concludes by providing best practices for
hardening Linux systems and enhancing logging configurations to aid
future investigations.


### Analyzing macOS and Docker Containers (608.4) {#analyzing-macos-and-docker-containers--608-dot-4}

The course now focuses on Apple macOS incident response, building on the
foundation established earlier. This includes understanding the history,
ecosystem, and details of the Apple Filesystem (APFS), file structure,
and important file types such as Property List (plist) configuration
files. A discussion of challenges and opportunities in responding to
macOS incidents follows, covering topics like acquiring disk and triage
data, reviewing acquisitions, and identifying suspicious activity in
logs and artifacts.

This part of the course then transitions to containerized microservices
and [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) analysis, focusing on the
architecture and management of [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
containers and providing a specific triage workflow for quick and
effective response against individual containers as well as the
container host.


### Cloud Attacks and Response (608.5) {#cloud-attacks-and-response--608-dot-5}

This part of the course focuses on incident response in major cloud
platforms from Microsoft and Amazon, covering log analysis techniques,
architecture designs, and automation initiatives that can be applied
across various cloud providers. It highlights unique challenges and
opportunities in cloud environments, particularly through the use of the
[MITRE ATT&amp;CK
framework's Cloud Matrix](https://attack.mitre.org/matrices/enterprise/cloud/).

In-depth discussion follows on Microsoft 365 (M365) and Azure, including
popular SaaS offerings like Entra ID, Exchange, SharePoint, and Teams,
as well as common attack scenarios against these platforms. The
importance of log analysis is emphasized, particularly in identifying
suspicious user logon and email activity from Unified Audit Logs.

The course then addresses the Recovery phase, covering security
enhancements to detect or prevent similar attacks in the future for M365
and Azure.

Next, it delves into Amazon Web Services (AWS), covering its general
architecture and components, as well as numerous logs and services
providing critical detection and analysis data for responders.
Discussions focus on architecting for response in the cloud, including
setting up security accounts for a secure enclave within AWS, using
template VMs (AMIs) for analysis, and automating IR tasks with AWS
Lambda and Step Functions.


### Capstone: Enterprise-Class IR Challenge {#capstone-enterprise-class-ir-challenge}

The final section of the course is a capstone exercise that allows
students to apply their knowledge by working on a simulated breach
scenario. They will receive a dataset from a compromised environment
that spans multiple host operating systems and cloud environments, and
use tools and techniques learned throughout the course to uncover the
steps of the breach.


## **Key Takeaways** {#key-takeaways}


### Summary of key concepts and skills learned during the course {#summary-of-key-concepts-and-skills-learned-during-the-course}

During the SANS FOR608 course, I learned key concepts and skills that
enabled me to do effective incident response team management and
coordination, including enterprise-level incident detection and to
deploy threat hunting strategies. The course covered large-scale event
correlation and timeline analysis techniques to identify patterns and
trends in incidents, as well as multi-platform artifact analysis for
incident response.

Specifically, I gained hands-on experience analyzing artifacts from
various platforms, including Windows devices, Linux systems, macOS
devices, containerized environments, and cloud-based infrastructure.
This comprehensive training has equipped me with the knowledge and tools
needed to detect, analyze, and respond to complex threats in enterprise
environments.


### Analysis of learning outcomes and their application in real-world scenarios {#analysis-of-learning-outcomes-and-their-application-in-real-world-scenarios}

Based on the provided course materials, I have analyzed my learning
outcomes and their application in real-world scenarios. Through my
analysis, I have gained a deeper understanding of the key concepts and
skills required for effective cloud response and analysis, container
DFIR fundamentals, detecting modern attacks, enterprise incident
response management, enterprise visibility and incident scoping,
foundational cloud concepts, Linux DFIR fundamentals, macOS DFIR
fundamentals, macOS essentials, rapid response triage at scale.

I have also gained practical knowledge of how to correlate large volumes
of data to identify patterns and trends in incidents.

In particular, my experience with cloud-based infrastructure has
highlighted the need for a comprehensive understanding of foundational
cloud concepts, including popular cloud services that enterprises use to
support business operations. I have also gained familiarity with common
data source types in an enterprise environment and strategies to
aggregate telemetry from disparate resources.

My analysis of learning outcomes suggests that effective application of
these skills requires a combination of technical expertise, analytical
thinking, and communication skills. By mastering these skills, I am
confident in my ability to respond effectively to complex incidents and
provide value to organizations as a security professional.


## **Conclusion and Recommendations** {#conclusion-and-recommendations}


### Summary of overall effectiveness of the SANS Forensics course for608 {#summary-of-overall-effectiveness-of-the-sans-forensics-course-for608}

The SANS FOR608 course is a comprehensive training program that provides
students with a strong foundation in incident response, threat hunting,
and digital forensic analysis. Through its curriculum, the course covers
key concepts and skills related to managing incident response teams,
detecting threats in enterprise environments using advanced analytics
tools, correlating large volumes of data to identify patterns and trends
in incidents, analyzing artifacts from various platforms including
Windows devices, Linux systems, macOS devices, containerized
environments, and cloud-based infrastructure.

<span class="underline">Analysis</span>:

-   **Comprehensive coverage**: The course covers a wide range of topics
    related to incident response and digital forensic analysis, providing
    students with a comprehensive understanding of the subject matter.
-   **Hands-on experience**: The course includes hands-on exercises that
    allow students to apply their knowledge in real-world scenarios, which
    helps to reinforce learning and improve retention.
-   **Practical skills**: The course emphasizes practical skills over
    theoretical concepts, which is beneficial for security professionals
    who need to respond to incidents in a timely and effective manner.
-   **Real-world relevance**: The course covers topics that are relevant to
    real-world scenarios, making it easier for students to apply their
    knowledge in practical settings.

Summary:

From my opinion the SANS FOR608 course is highly effective in providing
students with a comprehensive understanding of incident response and
digital forensic analysis. Through its comprehensive coverage, hands-on
exercises, and emphasis on practical skills, the course provides
security professionals with the knowledge and skills needed to respond
effectively to incidents. Overall, the course is well-structured,
engaging, and relevant to real-world scenarios, making it an excellent
choice for individuals looking to improve their incident response and
digital forensic analysis skills.


### Recommendations for future students looking to learn forensic analysis skills {#recommendations-for-future-students-looking-to-learn-forensic-analysis-skills}


#### Gain Practical Experience {#gain-practical-experience}

Before enrolling in a forensic analysis course, try to gain as much
practical experience as possible for example practicing
[Sherlocks on hack the box](https://app.hackthebox.com/sherlocks/) or
try yourself in Malware analysis challanges This could also involve
setting up your own home lab, participating in bug bounty programs, or
volunteering to help a friend or family member with their computer
issues. The more hands-on experience you have, the better equipped
you'll be to learn and apply forensic analysis skills.


#### Develop Your Analytical Skills {#develop-your-analytical-skills}

Forensic analysis requires strong analytical skills, including attention
to detail, critical thinking, and problem-solving. Practice these skills
by working on puzzles, brain teasers, or other activities that challenge
your mind. You can also try analyzing data sets, network traffic logs,
or system logs to develop your skills.


#### Learn about Cloud Computing {#learn-about-cloud-computing}

As a forensic analyst, it's essential to understand cloud computing and
how it affects the analysis of digital evidence. Take online courses or
attend webinars that teach you about cloud security, compliance, and
investigation techniques. This will help you stay up-to-date with the
latest trends and technologies.


#### Familiarize Yourself with Linux and macOS {#familiarize-yourself-with-linux-and-macos}

Linux and macOS are popular operating systems used by many
organizations, including those in the finance, healthcare, and
government sectors. Take online courses or attend workshops that teach
you about these operating systems, including their command-line
interfaces, file systems, and security features.


#### Join Online Communities {#join-online-communities}

Joining online communities, such as Reddit's r/learnprogramming or
r/netsec, can be a great way to connect with other professionals in the
field, ask questions, and learn from their experiences. You can also
participate in online forums, attend webinars, or join online study
groups to stay updated on the latest forensic analysis techniques.


#### Consider Specializing in a Specific Area {#consider-specializing-in-a-specific-area}

Forensic analysis is a broad field that encompasses many areas,
including computer forensics, mobile device forensics, and digital
evidence collection. Consider specializing in a specific area that
interests you the most, such as incident response or threat hunting.
This will help you develop deeper knowledge and skills in that area.


#### Stay Up-to-Date with Industry Developments {#stay-up-to-date-with-industry-developments}

The field of forensic analysis is constantly evolving, with new
technologies and techniques emerging regularly. Stay up-to-date with
industry developments by attending conferences, webinars, or online
courses that focus on the latest trends and advancements.

[^fn:1]: <https://www.sans.org/cyber-security-courses/enterprise-incident-response-threat-hunting/>

[//]: # "Exported with love from a post written in Org mode"
[//]: # "- https://github.com/kaushalmodi/ox-hugo"
